# Metagenomic analyses for a methane cycling microbial community
This GitHub page serves as a data repository for a metagenomic study conducted on the methane cycling microbial community of a landfill. This repository also houses associated R and bash code that was used to conduct the bioinformatic analyses associated with this study that is contained in the manuscript "Microbial methane cycling in a landfill on a decadal time scale". This manuscript and supporting information can be found on biorXiv here: 

# How to use this repository
The major workflows for data analyses and visualizations have been organized into self-contained directories in GitHub where all the input files have been provided with the Figure numbers keyed to the manuscript and supporting information. These directories include (presented in the order as outputs appear in the manuscript):

- Main_metagenomic_data_analyses: This directorty includes examples workflows for creating visualizations that summarize metagenome-assembled-genome coverage data, supplementary files summarizing metabolic modeling information output from DRAM, and metabolic heatmaps summarizing key metabolic functions for select genomes using R. This directory contains the inputs and examples outputs associated with **Figure 3**, **Figure 5**, **Figure S2**, and **Table S1** in the original manuscript. 
- Methanogen_metaanalyses: This directory contains input data compiling the names of methanogenic taxa and detection methods employed in previous landfill studies alongside the data manipulation and visualization scripts used in R to produce **Figure 4** in the manuscript.
- GToTree_Methanoperedenaceae_example: This directory contains input data and code required to generate phylogenetic trees and metabolic models for genomes retrieved from the family *Methanoperedenaceae*. This is an example of the workflow using GToTree and DRAM applied for other families in the manuscript. This directory contains the inputs and code required to produce **Figure S4** in the manuscript in addition to some examples of how to visualize metabolic data for specific families using GToTree and DRAM together.
- GToTree_Nevskiaceae_example: This directory contains the input data and code required for the phylogenomic analyses using GToTree to identify biomarker genes in genomes from the family *Nevskiaceae* retrieved from GTDB. This is an example of the workflow that was applied to the families *Acetobacteraceae* and *Mycobacteriaceae* in the manuscript. This directory contains the inputs and code required to produce **Figure S6** that can be reused to produced **Figure S7** and **Figure S8** in the manuscript.
- Supplementary_files: This is a directory that houses Supplemetary Files 1-7 that are referred to throughout the manuscript. Many of these supplementary files have been included in the repositories mentioned above for convenience.

These directories have been designed so that users can find all of the input files required in one place. The associated bash and R code is contained within R markdown files that were used to carry out the analyses. Portions of these markdown files that use bash code will need to be input manually into terminal, whereas R code can be run directly in software such as R studio. Examples of output have also been provided for convenience and visualizations that subsequently underwent manual editing for clarity have been indicated where needed in the markdown files.

